# Universal React - Barebones

This packages includes the barebones of a Isomorphic/Universal React Appplication. It is build using Webpack, React, ReactDOM and will also compile SCSS files. It is enough to get a basic application up and running, if you don't require any database connections and don't wish to use a more complicated Model architecture such as Redux. The application structure works as follows:

	|-- node_modules/
		src/ --	|
				components/ - Home to all your react components
				css/ - Compiled CSS file that will be generated by Webpack
				imgs/ 
				jsx/ - Compiles JS file that will be generated by Webpack
				public/ - Location of files required by the Webpack Dev Server
				routes/ - Routes powered by React Router that are shared on both the server/client
				scss/ - Home to all your customised SCSS and style files
				views/ - Home to the different HTML pages of your app
				main.js - Bundle Entry Point
				server.js - Server Code
		.babelrc
		.gitignore
		app.js - The starting point for our actual production server
		package.json
		webpack.config.js
		
##Getting Setup

You will basically just need to make sure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed and you should be good to get started. Other then that you will just need to download the repository and run an npm install to get all the packages that the app uses.

##How it works

The application can be run using either the Webpack-dev-server or the actual node server. Running the code in the Webpack-dev-server will allow you your hot reloading and other benefits, however the Isomorphic aspect will not be functional. That instead is tested and run by running the node server included. In short, you would use the Webpack Dev server to build out your UI and quickly setup the look and feel of your application. However once you start getting prepared for deployment and production, you will need to run the production version of the server, as this is what will run when you actualyl deploy.

**Running the Web Pack Dev server:**

	$ npm run development
	
The server will then be available on [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080)
		
**Running the Production Server:**

	$ npm start
	
The server will then be available on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)
	
##Adding Some Style

All SASS files are located within the src/scss folder. The application has a main entry point into these files which is the **main.scss** file. This file is imported into the main application within the **main.js** file. It must be pulled in here for webpack to recognise it.

####Webpack Dev Server
Your SASS files will be automatically compiled by webpack and appended to the head of your served index.html file. The application hot-reload on any style changes that you make while running, quick iteration hoooray!!!

####Production Server

The main difference when using the production server is that instead of the compiled css files being added to the HTML with Javascript, it is extrated once it has been bundled and saved out to a **styles.css** file. This file is located in the src/css folder (This folder should be automatically created if it doesn't already exist when webpack is run). This file can then be imported into your application in your **index.html** file. This should all be setup from the get go!

An example is presented in the **main.scss** of how to import another file, as well as how to reference the an image using the url() function.

Importing other SCSS Files:

	//main.scss
	@import './variables';
	
	// NOTE: The location is relative to the location of the main.scss file

Images on the other hand are a little different. When you are running the Production server, the 'root' of the server is considered to be the **src/** folder. So the below example will work perfectly in that case:

	//main.scss
	body {
		background-image: url('/imgs/download.jpeg)
	}
	
The Webpack Dev Server on the other hand looks for all static assets within the **src/public/** directory. This is a configuration setting in the webpack.config.js. Using the same url the server will look for all static files within this folder. When the Webpack Dev Server starts running, it will copy your **index.html** file and the entire **src/imgs/** folder into the **src/public/** directory for your happy coding convienance. This means you don't need to change the reference for your urls between different environments (That would be stupid!).

## Other Things to Know

Just as an aside, all compiles folders and files are not commited to the repository, so some of the above structure will seem a little bit different when you first download the repository. 

### Happy Coding Monfrei...
	

		